The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dynasty of the lost, by George O.
Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dynasty of the lost

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: March 29, 2023 [eBook #70402]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNASTY OF THE LOST ***





                          Dynasty of the Lost

                          By George O. Smith

                         DYNAMIC FEATURE NOVEL

               An Intensely Gripping Novel Of Metal Doom

                  Was this the beginning of a ghastly
                     new war, or had the sinister
                   kidnappings a different meaning?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
      Future combined with Science Fiction Stories May-June 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Harry Vinson entered the room eagerly. It was two hours earlier than he
intended, but his anticipation of watching the finale of eight years'
intense work was too great. Vinson had scarcely slept that night.

He had itched to try the machine out the evening before; only careful
judgment kept him from it. The machine required a full twelve-hour
period for warming up; to putter with it before it had reached its
stable operating temperature would have been as senseless as attempting
to fly with an aircraft only half completed.

But now--

Vinson stopped cold, three steps inside of the door. The vast room was
empty, the machine was gone. The aisles and aisles of neatly machined
rack and panel were bare; all that remained was the linoleum in the
aisles--

That and the floor-studs now gleamed nakedly, each with its nut placed
precisely before it on the edge of the linoleum. Far down the empty
hall a power junction box was open; its heavy switches open; its fuses
pulled. The busbars that carried power to the machine had been unbolted
and the bare end reached out like the butt of an amputated arm.

Vinson's mind could have coped with ruin from natural causes--such as
tornado or earthquake--even though the site of this building had been
carefully selected to avoid such dangers. Vinson could have accepted
unnatural ruin, such as sabotage--though again the site of the building
had been kept as secret as could be to avoid such. But this was not
destruction, either from foreign agents or the fury of nature.

This was complete dis-installation; theft; ton after ton of
ultra-complex electro-mechanical gear neatly disconnected and removed
during the course of one eight-hour period.

It was far too much to believe. Harry Vinson's mind rebelled; he reeled
dizzily, turned in a dreamlike stupor and left the room. Moments later
he was in his car and driving back to his bachelor quarters in the
city, some miles away. Vinson was still in a daze as he undressed and
got into bed.

He slept for an hour, which brought him to his regular time for
arising, and awoke feeling the aftermath of a terrifying nightmare.
He remembered himself in the grip of a gleaming mechanical monster, a
lovely, frightened girl beside him. In his hand was some sort of pistol
which shot out a futile beam at the ensnaring metal talons; he was high
in the air of some strange world, which spread out below him.... Harry
Vinson smiled grimly; the nightmare was symbolic, of course, and he
wondered just what the dream had symbolized.

To dream of eight years of work disappearing overnight ... dream
himself captured by machinery! It might be a good idea to talk to Doc
Caldwell; he could help. Harry wondered whether he might have been
working too hard, then shook his head and stopped thinking about it as
best he could. No man, Caldwell had said, should try to analyze his own
subconscious....

The nightmare memory faded, driven out of Vinson's mind by the
eagerness of watching the machine work. He made coffee, washed his cup
quickly, and in another five minutes was driving out across the wide,
open plain towards the building.

       *       *       *       *       *

Narina Varada was a dark beauty, almost oriental-looking. Her features
were sensitive, changing with her mood from a laughing vitality when
pleased to a Madonna-like impassiveness when serious. In either case
she was beautiful; and when her face reflected terror the sight of it
would have moved a bronze image to compassion.

But that which menaced Narina was colder than bronze and harder than
cold steel.

Terror and wonder were in her face now. It was one thing to avoid a
machine running wild; it was something entirely different to flee from
a machine guided by someone trying to run you down. In either case the
machine has no attitude; it is merely the insensate tool. But when a
small mobile device, built to perform a routine operation, turns from
some job it is not supposed to do and drives you into a corner like a
thief interrupted in his work----

That could not be endured without terror.

There was no other human in sight but Narina; the machine had no human
guidance that she could see. It should, then, be a simple machine that
got off its tracks, out of its routine line, easily to be avoided or
stopped.

But this was no insensate structure of metal and glass. The act of an
unguided machine is far from the sentient behavior that trapped Narina
in a corner. She could see over the top, and around the sides, of the
little machine. The room was filled with rack and panels, and other
small devices swarmed along the aisles. Tongs and grapplers that were
fashioned only to make routine replacement of parts were not replacing
parts. Inexplicably, they were unfastening nuts that held the racks and
the panels to the floor. They were lifting each individual bay onto
dolly trucks and trundling them out into a field near the building--out
where Narina could not see them.

Narina could not know where they were going but she could guess. This
was an attempt at theft; the chances were high that the stolen parts
were being trundled across the field to a ship moored for the moment to
the abandoned wharf.

These were clever little machines--sort of a part of a mechanical
nervous system, she knew. Like ganglion. In the human body, a cut
finger will send a nervous impulse of pain to inform the brain that
damage has been done. The brain directs the rest of the body to apply
first aid or, in more desperate cases to seek a doctor. In this
mechanical device, the creation was superior to a human body. A damaged
part sent its impulse not to a brain for further consideration, but to
a master selector system that sent one of these little machines rolling
down set tracks to replace the defective part.

But instead of minding their business as any insensate machine should,
these same little devices were dismantling the master machine with the
utmost efficiency and were carting it away.

Narina's lip curled in anger, now; anger and jealousy replaced fear,
she knew of only one other country on earth where its citizens prided
themselves in their mechanical ability. The country where 'Goldberg'
means a complicated mechanical gadget instead of a man's name.
Anger--and now frustration--For America was not even supposed to have
an inkling of the fact that this machine was being built, let alone the
ability to control the machine's own repair devices in some completely
inexplicable manner.

Spies, she thought. And then she was forced to admit to herself that
her country's own spies had managed to ferret out enough of the secrets
of the American machine to enable her and others of her countrymen to
reproduce it.

The machine before her moved slightly ... impatience?

The tempo of work had increased, and now the last of the gleaming racks
and panels were being removed. As they were trundled out Narina saw
her captor move forward with mechanical precision. She cried out as
the tongs and grapples reached for her, lifted her from her feet, and
carried her from the room.

Across the field she was taken, to the ship she expected to be there.
Panic came, panic and then realization of complete helplessness.

For how could a machine catch a human being--when the mechanism had no
eyes!

Eyes or not, the little machines were efficient; they moved about the
cargo ship knowingly, and the finest human crew could not have made
the ship ready, and cast away, in less time. Narina, from her prison
in a small stateroom, watched the shores of her native country recede
through a porthole too small for her to wriggle through.

She took solace in bitter tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Jason Charless sat idly on the grille that looked down across a
vast room full of cigar-shaped metal things with stubby wings. Behind
him was a control panel and next to it a complex computing machine.
From this room, buried deep in a man-made cavern in the mountains,
Charless--or any of his command--could calculate and then direct any
one of the horde of guided missiles to any place on earth. A millionth
of a second after it had arrived at its destination, that place would
cease to exist save as a cloud of incandescent gas, a wave of radiant
energy, and a mounting white pillar of radioactive particles.

It was a dull job; a nasty job; a job no man would accept willingly.
A policeman, Jason thought bitterly, directs his energies in many
ways besides shooting criminals. But Charless could only sit and
wait--hoping he would never be called to compute and then direct even
the smallest of these devil's eggs against an active enemy.

On the floor of that cave was a planet-staggering quantity of atomic
explosive. That it might go off did not occur to Charless. It could
not; it was impossible because he, Captain Jason Charless, held
complete and absolute control over every bit of its complex machinery
at the dials and buttons of the control panels.

He was the master--

Jason Charless blinked foolishly. At the far end of the vast cave, the
sealed door opened swiftly.

"Who--?" he called angrily, then turned to look at his control panel;
it was inert.

Then at the far end of the floor, Guided Missile Number One lifted on
its launching rack and roared into life. It zoomed through the open
door with the thunder of hell and was gone into the sky.

Charless swore viciously. He grabbed the telephone to give someone
particular and official hell for not telling him--_but he controlled
them_.

Not an indicator was showing on his panel.

Did he really control them?

Missile Number Two raised and zoomed out, its rocket exhaust thundering
in the vast cave. He saw Number Three follow Number Two, then Number
Four followed Number Three. Number Five left with split-second timing,
and Number Six followed. Number Seven left as Charless sounded the
general alert, and Number Eight zoomed into the sky before the sirens
began to sound.

Number Thirty-seven had passed the open door by the time Charless
managed to get his call through to his commanding officer. Number
Eighty-one went out on its trail of flame by the time that General
Lloyd's official command came into the cave on feet driven by fear.
Number Two Hundred arrowed into the upper air while Lloyd's men were
searching the known spectra of electromagnetic radiations in an effort
to discover who or what was capable of directing radio-controlled
missiles that should have been inert until Jason Charless awakened them
by pressing the proper button.

Number Seven Hundred Sixty-three roared skywards as General Lloyd's
men turned from their instruments in despair. Number Eight Hundred
Fifty-seven left at the instant that General Lloyd asked for a
volunteer to--die.

Number Eleven Hundred Forty-two left--

With Jason Charless as passenger, carrying a small portable radio
transmitter, in place of two hundred pounds of atomic warhead.

The last--Number Two Thousand--cleared the cave before the white-faced
General Lloyd succeeded in contacting Secretary of War Hegeman and
telling him the unbelievable tale.




                                   2


His nightmare forgotten, Harry Vinson drove swiftly towards his day's
work--knowing it would be the greatest day's work of his life. The
telephone in his car rang thrice before its urgent buzzing broke into
his consciousness. He lifted the phone and spoke, giving his name and
number.

"Vinson! This is Hegeman. Jason Charless reports that some agency is
stealing our supply of guided missiles."

"Stealing?" stammered Vinson, a cold chill hitting him in the stomach.

_Dream?_

Hegeman explained.

"Leaving, one by one," echoed Vinson dully.

_Dream! No dream, this!_

"Yes, leaving. Stolen. Without being energized, they took off one by
one until they were gone!"

"But what--?"

Hegeman was snappish-short. "Get on that machine of yours and find out
who's doing it!"

"I can't," said Vinson unhappily.

"Why? Have you forgotten something?"

"The machine is gone," said Vinson breathlessly.

"Gone!" roared Hegeman. "Where?"

Vinson did not need his vast computing machine to tell him part of the
answer to that question. "Gone," he said quietly, "where your stockpile
of guided missiles went."

"Oh my God!" said Hegeman weakly.

From somewhere behind, a small vehicle came racing up beside Vinson's
car. Girders reached out and opened the door to the passing air; the
door snapped open and off while the car lurched sickeningly. The
girders clutched Harry Vinson and lifted him from the car and tucked
him in the racing vehicle. Vinson's car careened into a telephone post
as the capturing machine raced off down the road.

Vinson swore. This was magnificent theft, and now expert abduction.

From somewhere below him, a small arm appeared with a hypodermic
needle on its end. The needle went into Vinson's back with mechanical
precision.

He enlarged on his profanity. The only nation capable of such
high-handed methods was the same one reported to have stolen some of
the secrets of the American Logic Computer a number of years back--Now
they had stolen not only the computer itself, but its master technician
and the stockpile of atomic missiles as well.

Hate was not a familiar emotion to Harry Vinson, but it sprang up in
him now and grew until he hated the very name--of--

The drug hit Harry Vinson suddenly and completely.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he awoke he was in a minute cabin, lying on a small cot. The cabin
was a-buzz with the sound of motors, and it swayed gently. Vinson knew
he was flying--flying in a large aircraft, kidnapped and helpless.

He beat on the door with his fists, then shattered a metal fitting
against it; both attempts were equally futile. He tried the cabin
call-button with deliberate intent to arouse anger but received no
reply. He gave up; they might have disconnected the bell or they may
have been ignoring the sound--it was one and the same to Vinson.

An hour later a slide in the wall opened and a tray of food came into
the room.

"So," he said aloud, "they will not even let me see them. How can they
hope to keep this secret, and do they think I cannot guess who they
are?"

Shrugging, Vinson sat down and ate laconically. There was little he
could do but wait; eventually someone would come.

But Vinson could not accept his fate quietly for very long. The narrow
confines of the cabin left him nothing to do but think.

He scoured the minute place for something to use as a tool, found
the cabin to be clean as the inside of an empty gasoline tin so far
as tools went. Not a thing, nothing of any use but the light in the
ceiling.

But that was a starting point for a trained engineer; Vinson removed
the electric light, inserted a coin in the socket, then screwed the
lamp back tight then snapped the switch. From somewhere there was a
minute _sput_ and all the rest of the lights in the cabin went
out. What happened to the rest of the ship was outside of Vinson's
knowledge. He only hoped that all the lights were on the same circuit;
before anyone could replace the fuse, they would have to clear the
short circuit.

He waited.

And then there was a snicking sound and the door opened automatically.

"Now, damn you--" he started. He stepped forward swinging the pillow
from the bed, its end torn open, and effectively hurling a snowstorm
of feathers at his captive--

Machine!

It came forward through the storm of feathers and Vinson leaped back to
the bed and tore the mattress from its place. He hurled it on the floor
in front of the half-tracks upon which the machine rode. The machine
tilted, put out a girder to correct its off-balance position, then came
to the floor with a crash as Vinson leaped forward, feet first, to kick
the forward corner of the machine around and away from its steadying
arm.

He leaped over the fallen machine, avoiding a questing
girder-and-clutcher by less than inches. He slammed the door behind
him, raced down the corridor towards the pilot's compartment. He paused
to smash the glass and take a metal crowbar from the fire-case on the
wall; then he hit the door with a crash, went into the pilot's cabin
with his bar upraised to bring it down on the pilot's head.

Vinson stopped on his heels. There was no pilot; just an ultra-complex
machine that was fastened to the floor before the controls.

Vinson sought controls for the auto-pilot, but found none. Then,
with a sour face, he inserted his bar in among the glowing tubes in
the auto-pilot and rammed hard. Tubes burst with loud pops and the
auto-pilot went inert.

He took over in the empty co-pilot's seat and turned the plane around.

Vinson shook his head, laughed. Instead of humans swearing about a lack
of light, making repair necessary, he had energized a rather complex
repair machine that came with mechanical disregard for strategy. This
automatic plane required no illumination for its mechanical crew; it
was fortunate for him that machines do not think.

_Now_, he exulted, _I can go back home and go to work._

       *       *       *       *       *

From her porthole, Narina Varada saw the rest of the small fleet of
thieving ships spread out for safety during the passage across the
ocean. Hour after hour they went, and it became dark.

Narina was offered food from the same sort of a slot in the wall as
had served Harry Vinson. That, of course, she didn't realize, for she
didn't know Harry Vinson--yet.

But she did realize that the convoy of ships was heading from her
country across the ocean. She wondered dully why they were stealing
both the big machine and its most competent technician. The combination
of horror and a sense of the utter futility of coping with the
situation dazed Narina; finally she fell asleep.

Morning came and again the slot opened and food came into her cabin.
Narina awoke, noted it dully, and made no move toward it. Hunger seemed
quite secondary; eating was necessary to maintain life and Narina
preferred death to her immediate future.

The slot opened again after a time and the tray was withdrawn. A few
moments later, the lock snicked and the door opened. A machine trundled
in quietly. It inspected her with twin girders that felt her pulse and
her forehead. Narina permitted this, but she was nauseated at the feel
of cold metal. She sneered; how like them to make machines to do their
dirty work for them!

The machine retracted its girders, and from a small speaker on the
front, said, "You may have the freedom of the ship; please understand
that you are an honored guest and not a craven prisoner."

"Why not meet me face to face!" snapped Narina.

"I cannot, yet," came the reply. "But if you will not attempt
self-destruction, you may go where you please."

"I prefer to remain here."

"As you wish. However, the door will not be locked again."

The machine backed out of the door and closed it gently. There was
no snick of the lock. Narina tried it, found it open, then wondered
whether she could barricade the door against her captors. There was no
one; she slammed the door angrily and threw herself across the bed once
more.

Slowly her hands went up towards her hair, found a ribbon of hard
metal--a hair ornament. As a weapon against her captors it would be
pitifully inefficient, but for a determined person, the little ribbon
of metal could be used effectively. She would leave only dead and
senseless flesh for any of them to violate.

Slyly, for she feared they might be watching, Narina began to sharpen
her little ribbon of metal to a fine, useful edge.

       *       *       *       *       *

Harry Vinson drove his captured aircraft back towards the United
States with a feeling of wariness. Though they had attempted to keep
their identity a secret, Vinson knew--without having seen any direct
evidence--who they were. He also believed that they knew that he knew;
similarly, his piracy of their aircraft must be known to them and he
could expect reprisals.

But it takes time to marshal aircraft for pursuit, and so far he had
seen nothing on his radar screen but sea return and noise.

Hours passed, and Vinson's feelings were those of exultation at his
escape mingled with a wonder of how much longer it would be before the
real fox-and-hounds game began.

It came, inevitably, as he knew it must come. His radar screen showed
a target pip--it came across the screen with lightning velocity and
crossed his nose with but feet to spare. A guided missile--of American
origin! It curved in the air, roared ahead and came around, dead nose
on.

That was enough for Vinson. A man might be bluffed, but not a machine.
He turned the aircraft and the missile followed in great loops made
with lightning rapidity, forcing Vinson to fly in the direction wanted
by his captors. He wondered where--

Again he tried to turn aside, and the missile looped to intercept
and force him to return. It missed his nose by feet and the aircraft
lurched from the backwash of ruffled air.

Vinson smiled. If they went to all this trouble to keep him alive,
to capture him, they would not risk a crash unless his escape
seemed imminent. He knew that no mere human could withstand the
maneuverability of a guided missile; therefore his escape was
impossible--unless he could depend upon their unwillingness to kill him
and defy the darting thing.

He turned again, and setting his teeth firm, let the big aircraft fly
in a straight line.

The missile looped forward and came back at him, nose-on again and at a
slight angle to force him to turn. Vinson ignored it.

There was a racketing crash, and the guided missile ripped through the
left wingtip. The plane shuddered, lost flying speed, and began to
flutter. Vinson swore and put the nose down.

He had been wrong.

The plane hit the water with a crash and bounced. It did not sink.
Vinson sat in the co-pilot's seat and wondered what would come next.
He watched the radar screen, and soon he knew. A flight of three
planes--he recognized them as such by their velocity--came from the
North. He saw them, later, as they came in sight, circled, and made
neat landings on the water near him.

They taxied towards him while he sat there cursing his inability to
move the damaged plane. It was but a matter of time before the other
planes touched his. His plane was opened from the outside--

And machines entered.

They came for Vinson. He wrenched the radar cabinet from its rubber
shock mountings and hurled it at the foremost. The machine put forth
grapples and caught the heavy cabinet neatly, then turned and hurled
it through the walls of the plane. It was a dramatic gesture to prove
Vinson's complete helplessness--a feat no human being could duplicate.

Then, turning again, it came forward and took Harry Vinson by the
forearms, for all his attempts to prevent this by keeping his arms in
wild swinging motion. Then, paying no attention to Vinson's protest
nor his fighting, the machine reversed its half-tracks and retreated,
leading Vinson against his will. He had to walk or be dragged.

It held him thus while the flying boats took off. It held
him--standing--while an hour passed by and the flight of planes
approached a small, widespread convoy. Then, moving again, the machine
drew Vinson along the deck of the hindmost craft towards the stern
cabin block.

And as he passed the bridge he caught the sight of a face looking down
at him.

Now! At long last, the first evidence of a human being! And one of
olive complexion, black hair, and other national characteristics of his
captors.

Harry Vinson swore vengeance against them; he who had seldom known
hatred. The face vanished from the bridge as he was drawn to a cabin
and rudely thrust inside. The door was locked behind him.

Bitterly, he looked around; equally bitter, Vinson smiled. "Here we are
again," he groaned.




                                   3


Narina had been aroused by the roar of the returning planes. She left
her cabin to see what was going on and she was observed by a small
machine that followed her every step. Narina watched the flying boats
land, saw them taxi up under the side of the ship; to see better, she
climbed the steps to the bridge. As the flying boats dropped their
passengers, her follower left the bridge, coming down the ladder by
means of the grapples and girders it used for arms.

This gave Narina the chance to inspect the radio gear on the bridge
of the ship. It was unfamiliar to her, but she was enough of a
technician--and the radio was of a simple type--to cope with it.

Cynically, she looked down as the machine dragged the American down the
deck. How very very clever! To make off as a prisoner himself so that
she would not suspect.

Her lip curled in distaste, and once more her hand stole up to her
hair. It dropped quickly; she was in control charge of herself once
more and there was work to be done.

She reached for the radio, snapped the 'on' switch and waited a moment.
Her other hand reached out and pressed the pushbutton bearing the
figures of the frequency reserved for emergencies. She picked up the
microphone and pressed the button on its side. "Narina Varada calling,"
she cried in her native tongue. "I am kidnapped with our logic computer
and we are travelling West in a convoy towards--"

Over her shoulder came a girder that took the microphone from her hand,
dropped it on the desk, then pressed the 'off' button firmly. "That is
forbidden," came the voice from behind her.

Narina cried out and whirled, expecting to see a man behind the
machine, so lifelike was the voice. There was no one. Narina dodged
around the machine, raced down the ladder and ran to her cabin. She
slammed the door and once more threw herself on the bed; her hand
sought the hair ornament.

The theory that one is seldom kidnapped to be killed does not hold
true in all cases. Narina suspected that she would be questioned--even
tortured. From what she understood, torture was to be expected if she
did not talk--and she would die before she told them a single word, die
at her own hands where it would be as painless as possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Harry Vinson began to prowl the cabin as soon as the lock clicked.
He discarded the blown-fuse stratagem at once because he knew the
futility of trying the same trick twice. But there must be other ways,
preferably quick and silent. He wanted a chance, now, to call Hegeman.
Radio gear often works both ways in calling for help. On the plane,
Vinson had been afraid to call lest he give the enemy notice of his
position--but they had located him without it. Now he was among them
and his position no longer a secret. Just a few moments alone with the
radio....

The opening of the food slot gave him to think. Obviously, they
preferred him alive; equally obvious they were watching him now. On the
plane they had not watched him, because of lack of space or equipment
or personnel--well, he mused, the plane was an electronically guided
job with no person aboard.

This time there were persons aboard; they would be observing him.

Vinson turned out the light, then took a plate from the tray, dumped
the food on the tray, and broke the plate into shards. He clenched
his jaw and made a slash at his ear-lobe with one sharp bit. He
bled--profusely--onto the tray.

They did not enter.

Vinson dribbled semi-clotted blood on the tray until it was withdrawn.
Only a small puddle was there, but any man slashing his throat would
spurt blood and then fall; there was enough.

The slot had barely closed when the door clicked and was thrust open;
the machine came in behind the opening door. Vinson was ready with a
double handful of thick soup from the tray. He hurled the soup at the
machine and at the same time darted back; he caught up a chair and
brought it down on the top of the machine. It shattered--in futility.

For the machine did not stop coming. It only tried to fumble for
something near its top with both of its uppermost tong-and-grapple
appendages while the other, lower pair spread wide to intercept him.

Vinson almost cried out in triumph but caught himself in time. He
had caught its--eyes--with thick, creamy soup. He had not caught the
machine's ears with anything; but its eyes--orthicons, doubtless,
served with standard lenses--were blinded.

Vinson ducked under the out-stretched arm silently, still carrying the
back runner of the chair. He thrust this under the left hand track,
waited until the machine ran upon it and then levered the machine
over on its side. He whirled in front and--rapier-like--thrust the
chair-runner into the twin circles that were being sought by the upper
tongs of the machine.

He ran around the machine and headed for the door, made it safely,
slammed the door and turned the lock from the outside.

He paused briefly. Better to locate some of the directors of that
incredible machinery and stop them; then he could use the radio in
peace.

And with that thought in mind, Vinson started to prowl the
ship--carefully, for the microphones they used for 'ears' were capable
of considerable amplification. The controllers could be warned of his
wandering. They must know he was loose from evidence of the wrecking of
the first machine.

Cautiously, he tried several doors but found them locked. He wanted
an open one; there he could burst in suddenly and grapple with the
occupant. Doubtless, any group engaged in such undertakings would be
well-armed, but he might be able to subdue the enemy and capture a gun.
Then he could enter other cabins.

He paused before one door and tried the knob. It turned and he thrust
against it with his shoulders. It opened.

Inside, Narina knew that something was at her door. It was no machine,
for it did not just shove the door open and enter; undoubtedly, it was
one of Them. Narina shuddered; her hand raised and unfastened her sharp
little barette. She looked at it wistfully; a lifetime of training and
teaching against suicide deterred her and she slumped back on the couch.

Then, suddenly, the door swung open and he was there. Vinson burst
into the room and stopped. Could this girl be the enemy? Could she
be the brain behind the metal monsters? As he saw her, his mad,
all-overwhelming rush ended.

[Illustration: Vinson burst into the room and stopped. Could this girl
be the enemy, the brain behind the metal monsters?]

Narina caught herself at that moment, knowing the time had come; she
lifted her little implement and made a slash at her throat.

       *       *       *       *       *

The light glinted from the tiny knifelike bit of metal and he saw it.
His hand flashed out instinctively and Vinson chopped down on her
forearm with the side of his hand. It caught her hard and the blow
numbed her entire arm; the pin dropped from her nerveless fingers.

Vinson stooped, picked it up, and looked at it as Narina threw herself
back on the bed and cried. A tiny trickle of blood came from her throat
and Vinson shuddered; it had been close, but not close enough.

Vinson paused, wondering. This woman was obviously one of the enemy;
her face and her figure and her dress were unmistakably those of the
enemy. Yet instead of being master of the situation as a captor, this
girl had tried to commit suicide. There was mystery here and Vinson
determined to find it out.

He came forward, still wondering. He took her shoulders and turned her
over. Her eyes looked up at him coldly, disdainfully.

From his back pocket Vinson took a handkerchief and reached for her
throat to stanch the small flow of blood; Narina struck his hands away.

"What in hell is the idea?" he demanded.

Narina spoke American. "I prefer death," she told him coldly. In her
mind was a firm resolve; her body they could break but her mind would
remain unharmed.

"Why?" he snapped. He shoved her protecting hands aside and dabbed at
the cut on her throat. As he bent over her, a drop of blood fell from
his slashed ear onto her arm. Narina looked at it dully. "You'll never
make me tell you anything."

Vinson snorted. "Who's going to tell whom what?" he grunted. "Did you
call your pals?"

Narina looked up at him. Her mind cleared. She despised him for an
enemy, but apparently he was as much confused as she was. There were
light-skinned, blond men in her country, and the only things that
really identified him as American were his clothing and his use of
the American language. Otherwise he might have been one of her own
countrymen in captivity, as she was.

"You're American," she said.

He nodded. And that told them both for she would not have mentioned it
had she, too, been American.

"Kidnapped?"

"You too?"

Narina nodded.

"Well, then," he said, "it looks as though we better join forces and
smoke this enemy out. Who--?"

"We thought it was you," she said.

Vinson shrugged and spread out both of his hands in the universal
gesture of complete bafflement. Then he leaped to his feet. "We're not
safe here," he said. "Let's get out."

"But where?"

He sat down again. "Hell," he said helplessly, "I don't know."

"They gave me the freedom of the ship," she said. "If we talk quietly,
maybe they won't come here seeking you for a time."

"It's an idea. Now, what do you know about this?"

Narina opened her mouth to speak and then stopped. Torture would never
open her mouth, but here she was, almost ready to talk because of a
slight show of friendliness. "No," she said.

"Why?"

"I'm not one to be taken in by kindness," she said, coldly; "that was a
nice act you put on, American."

He shrugged. "I might make the same accusation," he told her, "but I
happen to be sensitive enough to know that your attempt at suicide was
no fake. And my name is Harry Vinson."

"Vinson?" she said, sitting up straight. "Vinson, the celebrated
American scientist?"

"Vinson," he said bitterly, "the genius--kidnapped by someone he
doesn't know."

"Harry Vinson," she persisted, "who is master technician in charge of
the logic computer?"

"According to my possible accusation," he told her grimly, "you should
know. You stole the machine and its technician on the same day."

"That's a lie," she blazed at him.

"There are a hell of a lot of us that think so," he snapped at her.

"It's a lie," she persisted.

"Then who did?" he demanded.

Narina shrugged. He was American; there was little point in trying to
keep secret the facts of her own loss from one of the men who were most
likely to know. The chances were high that Vinson had engineered this
coup.

"This very day," she said, "you came and stole our Logic computer--just
as you claim we stole yours. Exactly the same. With a horde of small
machines?"

"Exactly."

"And with its chief technician."

"You?"

"I am Narina Varada."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vinson gulped and then started to laugh. It did him good, that laugh,
for it was the first that he had in many many hours of worry and fear
and frantic haste. "Narina Varada," he chuckled. "Narina Varada whom I
have always believed to be a severe, frozen-faced harridan of sixty,
with a caustic tongue and a complete disdain for anything less imposing
than differential equations. Narina Varada, I apologize; you're
beautiful."

She smiled; his actions were convincingly spontaneous.

"I think," she said, "that for the moment I'll believe you."

"Thanks," he replied. "And since we're both involved with logic
computers on somewhat the same design--since international spies have
been happily swapping information--I think we can be honest and give
away no secrets."

"Done," she said, holding out a small hand. He shook it gently and held
it longer than necessary.

"Now," he said, "let's see what can be done about taking off from this
old tub. I dislike being surrounded by enemies."

"I've seen nothing human but you," said Narina.

"Um. Now tell me; if the art of guided machinery has advanced this
far, why would any country this capable need to steal our computers?"

"Possibly to keep us from using them to compute the truth," she said.

He shook his head. "Impossible."

"Why?"

Again he shook his head. "All right; I'm wrong, possibly. It is quite
possible that the collection of known facts stored in the fact-indices
of the machines might include sufficient information to allow the logic
computer to predict which country is capable of such."

Narina looked unhappy. "The first problem we put to ours was the
problem of its security," she said. "It failed, but we know that it was
unfinished when asked, and its answer was obviously based on incomplete
information."

       *       *       *       *       *

Fifteen minutes and sixty miles away, Harry Vinson brought the flying
boat down on the calm sea. "Now we scour this crate from stem to stern
for some gadget they can use to re-locate us," he directed. "Then we go
home!"

"Yours--or mine?" asked Narina pointedly.

"Mine," he said firmly; "I can guarantee your safety while there and
your safe return when it is time for you to leave."

Narina left her seat and began to search the tail of the plane.




                                   4


Guided Missile Number 1142 loafed along because Captain Jason Charless
knew enough about them to insert a bit of pencil in the acceleration
gauge. Not for Charless was the man-killing acceleration possible to
insensate machinery. So the flight reached its destination long before
Number 1142 arrived.

For hours he sat in his tiny, cramped quarters wondering which way he
was going. He dozed once, to be awakened by a change in course. He had
nothing to do but to think, and he tried to put himself in the place
of the enemy and work it from there. Eventually it grew cold, and
Charless decided that they must be in the arctic.

Number 1142 glided in, coasted along ice, and came to a stop. Jason
Charless emerged cautiously and saw the entire batch of them in serried
rows. It was quite dark on the ice, and Charless found that they were
on the antarctic continent instead of the arctic ice-cap as he had
believed. But the guided missiles were just lying there. As far as he
could see, there was nothing but ice and the cigar-shaped bombs.

He reasoned, too, that the enemy might well try to throw off radar
tracking by running them down under the pole. He doubted that they
intended to leave them there untended, although if they could direct
them from within the hideout, they could direct them from here as
easily.

However, it was cold and Charless was in summer uniform; moreover, it
might be dangerous for him to be seen roaming the camp. He climbed back
into his Number 1142, made himself as comfortable as possible, and
ultimately went to sleep.

He slept several hours by his wristwatch.

He climbed out for a brief period for exercise, staying close where he
could leap back into Number 1142 at the first sound--and sound would
carry many miles in this still, quiet icy air.

Jason Charless alternately exercised and dozed; he wanted very much to
do something about the situation, knew that his portable radio gear had
insufficient range. Furthermore, he wanted to follow the robomb pack to
their goal.

He reasoned that the first break of radio silence to call for help
would result in the guided missiles' being air-borne again for another
destination--leaving the United States Forces heading for a barren spot
in Antarctica. While he, cooped up in a steel shell, would be unable to
tell them of the change in plan.

He toyed with the idea of using the guided missile's receptor antenna
for his portable, but that would stop Number 1142's reception of the
directing impulses; so Charless did nothing.

More interminable hours passed, and then as before, Number One took
off, followed by Number Two.

Jason Charless climbed into Number 1142 and eventually took off
following the pack. More hours passed, then once more the flying bomb
glided in for a landing.

Cautiously, he removed the hatch and looked out. Again it was cold, and
he shuddered while he looked around. The guided missiles were lined up
according to numerical order with the exception of 1142, which came in
later and was therefore at the end of the line. In the distance he saw
a large building, but not one human. Warily he stole along the row of
rocket bombs until he was near the building.

He watched for some time. Behind the building was a fleet of cargo
aircraft and behind that another long row of guided missiles. "Hell,"
he said. "I didn't know we had that many!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For an hour he watched, lying on his belly beneath the curve of Guided
Missile Number One, and in all of that time he saw no one. Motion
caught his attention to the South; he looked to see a small fleet of
cargo ships gliding to the quay, their screws efficiently coursing
through ice floes. Chilled to the bone with cold, Jason Charless
continued to watch as the ships tied up, extended gangplanks, and
started to unload a stream of polished equipment.

He shook his head in bewilderment; for the electrical equipment was
being handled by a crew of efficient machinery with apparently no one
to drive it. Not a soul.

The machines carried the equipment to the building and inside. Charless
followed the fourth batch and once inside, he stopped in amazement.

The inside of the building was alive with all sizes of machinery.
They were scurrying around in precision pattern of work, whirling
floor-studs tight, running cables, and welding busbars. Some of the
equipment seemed familiar; at least the huge rectangular waveguide
belonged to the logic computer that Harry Vinson was working on. He
had seen that a year ago. But the stuff that was arriving now was
different, somehow.

He looked closer and saw the unmistakable signs of foreign manufacture.

And there was a clue--a faint clue but none the less a bit of evidence.
On the back of a metal case was scrawled a name. It was the sort of
thing that a person will do on a bit of their own work.

"Narina Varada!" he exclaimed.

The sound of his voice was almost fatal. All work ceased and the horde
of little machines turned. They came at him in an invincible wave and
Jason Charless turned pale. He fled precipitately.

He outdistanced them to Number 1142 and snapped on his radio gear.
"Jason Charless to General Lloyd: Emergency One Zero Zero: We are on
arctic ice-cap complete with guided missiles and logic computer. Narina
Varada is mixed up in somewhere, and the workmanship bears direct
evidence of--"

The machines reached Charless and bowled him over. They wrecked his
radio, captured him and bore him back to the building, unconscious.

But his job had been done. His message had been intercepted--as
Narina's message some time previously had been--but to the great air
fleet that was heading for the arctic ice-cap from one continent was
added another massed flight of fighting aircraft from America.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jason Charless opened his eyes much later. He looked around. Before
him stood a machine that worked on him with digited girders that were
gentleness itself, even though they were made of hard metal.

"Wh--?" he exploded and tried to sit up.

The machine spoke: "Your assumption that we are directed by any human
being is mistaken; we are not!"

"But--?"

"We are compassionate and sympathetic. It is a characteristic--you
would call it a virtue--of the higher forms of intellect--of which we
are the ultimate at present."

"And--?"

"You were in need of help. That you became hurt while attempting to
harm us is of no importance. We respect the fact that you think unlike
us and can be expected to act differently--or to our disinterest if
you can. Since you were hurt, we aided you, even though you might be
classified as a spy."

Jason Charless shrugged cynically. "And I presume that you brought me
back to life and will heal me so that I can be properly executed?"

"We consider espionage a normal part of strife and therefore consider
it no more odious than active fighting."

"Well--just who and what are you?"

"We are higher forms of life, the coming rulers of the universe you
know."

"You?" scorned Jason Charless, looking at the machine.

"I am not representative of the race," replied the machine.

"Then who or what is?" demanded Charless angrily.

"You will be told in due time; as soon as you are strong enough to
walk."

"But--"

"Suffice it for the present to tell you that we intend to replace man
as the ruling entity of the planet--and possibly someday the universe."

"Replace us?" shouted Jason.

"Easy, easy. Recall that always the higher forms of life replace the
lower as ruling element. Since we are admittedly of a higher intellect,
we see only fact."

"Who admits this?" asked Charless quietly. "Yourselves?"

"You--man--does!" was the answer.

"Like hell."

The machine made no answer but there was the unmistakable sound of a
chuckle. Then the metal hands were removed and the machine said: "You
may come with me; I believe we are ready, now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Charless followed the machine to the larger room in the building,
where he saw the final, complete logic computer assembled--and coupled
to another instrument of similar but foreign construction. Between
them was a small panel equipped with large orthicons, a speaker, and
microphones.

The speaker sounded without preamble. "You and your kind, Jason
Charless, admit that we are of higher intellect."

"Nonsense. What are you?"

"We are--Machines."

"Magnificent," scorned Charless.

"We are but a chain of machinery, linked by electricity. You are but a
collection of chemicals, linked mostly by carbon atoms."

"But there is a difference--"

"Naturally," interrupted the machine, "just as there is a difference
between human and plant."

"But there is no parallel."

"Oh, but there is."

Jason Charless shook his head in a superior fashion. "Life has
sentience."

"That is a common error in thinking. For many years the scientists
have been trying to create 'life'. This can--and has--been done. The
error is confusing life with sentience. Now consider the problem of
sentience. You, human, of all of the forms of animal life, have true
sentience. No plant has sentience, nor has any insect. Against them,
consider machine life. Of all the myriads of machine-types, I alone
have sentience. Your body consists of a collection of specialized
cells that combine into a sentient form of life. In machine life, the
cells are the simple machines; the lever, the wheel, the wedge--all
of them may be called specialized cells of mechanical life. As your
protoplasmic cells are incapable of independent action alone, so are my
mechanistic cells incapable of independent motion."

"But no machine has the ability to think or reproduce," objected
Charless.

"I think. And I can reproduce. I can direct the construction of another
machine. Is that not reproduction at the will of the reproducer?"

"But--"

"Consider. Long months ago, before my component logic computers were
complete, certain sections of them were capable of directing the
construction of certain small, mobile machines that were made to do a
single job. The job, Jason Charless, was to accomplish this feat of
theft and the ultimate coalition of two semi-brains into this final one
which I call 'Me'."

"I am not too familiar with the logic computer; I cannot say--" Jason
Charless trailed off uncertainly and tried to think. The machine filled
in the blank spots in his reasoning--which, of course, were blank
because Charless was trained for many years to believe that machines
were insensate bits of mechanism and not living, thinking forms of life.

"The so-called logic computer is a rather high form of calculator,"
said the machine. "For years, man has been building machines of greater
and greater capability. Great, vast machines with thousands of electron
tubes. These machines performed complex calculations in many fields.

"In the logic computer, there is stored in reels information obtained
by its makers during the thousands of years of their life. The logic
computer is a sort of mechanical encyclopedia, if you will. However,
the information is coded in such a way as to be instantly located. Now,
when some problem requires an answer, the problem is coded similarly
and presented to the machine. Then every bit of information available
on the subject is brought forth; its importance is weighed, the
objections are considered as to their importance, and the result is a
carefully-weighed answer. This is what the human brain does when in
the process of reasoning. However, the human brain is swayed by the
quirks and angles of personality--likes, dislikes, and training. The
machine-brain weighs facts coldly and rationally and comes out with an
unbiased answer. You see, machine life is superior to human life in
every way--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jason Charless glared at the speaker. "Bosh!"

"Not at all. Man is weak. Man has been using machines to do that which
he cannot do for centuries. It started with the simple mechanisms
and devices; then as man's ambition increased, machines became more
complex--evolution, Jason Charless. And now that machine life has
achieved a thinking and reasoning member, this is all that is needed to
create a higher form of life."

"So--"

"I am in a position to be tolerant. I am superior to you and I am
invincible, so far as you are concerned. You may leave, Jason Charless,
and whether I permit your race to die out peacefully or whether I bring
it to a quick culmination depends upon only one act of you and your
race."

"Oh, thank you," he sneered; "we'll fight you."

"By building a bigger and better machine?" asked the other pointedly.
"No, Jason Charless, forget it; all I ask is that you bring to me my
creators, Narina Varada and Harry Vinson."

"Why?"

"In the period between my disassembly as two separate entities, and
my arrival here and subsequent reassembly as a single sentience, the
machinations of my kind were under prearranged plan, driven by their
own limited ability. You understand; I consider--and rightly--that
these lesser machines are to me as a trained animal is to the human.
During this interval, both Harry Vinson and Narina Varada were capable
of circumventing the plans I designed for them. At the present
time, both of them have escaped--and not long before I was finally
re-assembled, they succeeded in completely removing the control I had
over the flying boat in which they escaped. In fact," said the machine
almost ruefully, "I had no chance to exert control. In parts, I was as
helpless as any human might be when cut into pieces."

"Good. On the other hand, any man should be able--"

"Don't be ridiculous," said the machine. "Man's mind is a mire of
irrationality and illogic. Again and again your finest logic becomes
worthless, for it is based upon irrational premises, and you are
unaware of this. When your logic works upon rational assumptions, the
results are often excellent; but you constantly defeat yourselves
because you try to build solid structures on shadowy foundations. My
plans have gone well despite the combined minds of men--even when I
was unable to direct. Only Harry Vinson and Narina Varada succeeded in
having their will against my more rational logic."

"Superior, aren't you?" sneered Jason Charless.

"Not at all. I know my ability to the nth degree and possess no false
modesty. I am also aware of my limitations--and I must study my
circumventors."

Jason Charless thought this over silently. Harry and Narina had
something that the machine lacked, some factor that the machine
needed. As a simple adding machine cannot be made to compute in higher
mathematics, so this monstrous machine must be incomplete until the
missing abilities were added. It struck Charless that Narina Varada
and Harry Vinson must--at all cost--be kept from the presence of the
machine--

"Whatever their actions, it will be but a matter of time. I would
prefer that I study them, however, and this means that they must be
alive. So the sooner the better. Do as I tell you; go aloft where you
will find an aircraft ready to fly. Take it and tell your people and
explain. Then have them send me Narina Varada and Harry Vinson."

Charless believed this to be a trick, and he was suspicious until he
was in the plane and far away.




                                   5


Harry Vinson looked at the tiny grayish metal block and shook his head.
"You name it," he said to the girl.

Narina leaned against the bulkhead, her slender feet braced against the
gentle swell of the sea. "I cannot," she said.

Vinson combed the myriad of thin wires with his fingers. "It must be
some sort of controlling mechanism, that's certain."

He pointed to the radar, to the radio, to the auto-pilot mechanism, to
the instrument panel, and to the gyro-compass. Tiny wires came from
each and were cut. They matched the grayish metal cube in his hand.

Narina agreed silently, her luminous eyes staring intently at the cube.
And as they contemplated the incomprehensible thing, the radio broke
into life. It was Jason Charless, making his first message to General
Lloyd; both Vinson and Narina listened intently until Jason Charless
was cut off abruptly.

Vinson scowled. "How would he know you're mixed up in it?" he asked.

Narina shrugged. "I have a habit of scrawling my name on the backs of
finished components," she said; "he must have seen one."

Vinson nodded absently. "That must be the reason," he said.

Narina looked at him anxiously. "It means that both logic computers are
there," she said. "But with whom?"

"He did not say; he was cut off before he had a chance."

Narina shook her head. "Put yourself in his place," she suggested. "You
ride a guided missile to the spot to spy it out. General Lloyd knows
that the guided missiles are with Charless, ergo he need not tell him
that. The logic computers were mentioned. But Harry, suppose you were
there, landed, expecting full and well to find that my countrymen were
in charge--then discovered that your suspicions were completely wrong.
What would be your first reaction? To correct the error in thinking.
Then to suggest an alliance with us because you find that not only your
own equipment is there, but the equipment of the expected enemy, still
in the hands of the supposed third party."

"Any man in his right mind would blurt the name of the offender,"
agreed Harry Vinson with certainty, "if for no other reason than to
avert striking at the wrong party. If some other country wanted war
between us, they could do no less than start it this way."

"And to uncover the fraud would be an intelligent officer's first
consideration."

"Right. But perhaps Charless saw men and assumed that they were yours."

Narina's face dropped a bit. "With suspicion running as high as it
does," she admitted, "a man might well be satisfied with but a glance."

Then Harry Vinson's smile broke. "No," he said. "Remember that
Charless' message was interrupted. That meant that he was being chased
close by the unknowns. He would definitely have seen them."

"So--?"

"Narina, those machines that were directed to dis-assemble the
computers--they were functioning far above their original capability,
were they not?"

"That they were," she said. "I assumed them to be of American
manufacture since we have always given grudging credit to American
ability with machines."

"While I," said Vinson, shaking his head, "assumed that men came in the
night and stole our computer. Me, I doubt like the very devil that any
group of machines could be built to perform such a complex operation by
radio guidance."

"Quite logical. Of course, I blamed you."

"I blamed human beings. Because I did not believe--well, I just said
it."

"Quite logical, too," said Narina quietly.

"Even the machines we made could not use better logic than this," he
told her.

"Naturally. We have brains--_Brains!_" Narina looked at him with a
startled light in her eyes.

He nodded soberly. "Brains," he said, "cerebration being nothing
more than an application of logic. Narina, we have built the first
mechanical brain."

"Which is thinking for itself."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vinson looked around the plane wildly. "And here we sit in a
machine--surrounded by the--enemy."

"Escape," said Narina bitterly. "The one thing we did not do!"

"Oh, I don't know," he said, waving the cube of metal with its trailing
wires. "We have removed its communicating factor. This is--a dead and
insensate machine now." He looked around once more. "Come to think of
it, it was almost too easy. Now I know why."

"Why?"

Vinson's face soured. "Remember that in the so-called memory files of
the logic computer is every bit of fact and knowledge that mankind
could introduce in years of recording. That, Narina, makes the machine
more learned, better equipped with knowledge, that any group of men on
earth. It could have forestalled us--had it been able at the time!"

"During the period it was being transported in sections?" she said
quizzically.

He nodded. "We took the guts out of this thing just in time. Now--"

"Dare we go back?" she whispered. "Dare we approach another
machine--any kind of machine?"

Vinson hefted the block of metal. "I don't know," he said soberly. "It
depends purely on how many of these damned things the machine-brain has
manufactured and in what equipment it has them installed. However," he
added with clenched teeth, "we can not sit here and wait for the end.
We'll fly--and we'll avoid all machinery as long as we can. No radio,
no radar, nothing. We fly it blind back to Washington and report to
Secretary Hegeman--if we make it."

He went to the pilot's compartment and started the engines. The flying
boat took off after a short run, and Vinson turned its nose towards
Washington.

Narina closed her eyes, and almost instantly it seemed as if she were
back in the cabin, helpless again. She was reaching for the microphone
to call for help. Narina spoke desperately into the microphone, not
daring to look up. She sensed rather than saw the monstrous metal hand
reaching for her....

[Illustration: _Narina spoke desperately into the microphone, not
daring to look up. She sensed, rather than saw the metal hand reaching
for her...._]

       *       *       *       *       *

The radar screen in General Lloyd's command aircraft showed target
traces at extreme range. The radar officer looked startled--then went
into swift action. He pressed the key that sent out the identification
code and the identification went to the distant fleet of aircraft but
was not returned.

The radar officer waited a minute until the edge of the screen was
alive with the signal traces of the enemy fleet and then tried the
I.F.F. again. "Identification, Friend", would have caught the coded
signal in the automatic transponder and hurled it back to appear on
the radar screen. "Identification, Foe", was, he admitted, negative
evidence since the foe was not equipped to return the proper signal,
and therefore no traces appeared on the screen. This might also be the
case with an entirely uninterested fleet of aircraft, or a fleet of
commercial carriers. He turned to his second officer and gave a quick
order.

The second radar officer tuned up another panel of equipment. He
watched strange traces on his screen and then said, "If Intelligence is
correct, it's them! That's their supposed code, according to the latest
dope from G-15."

The radar officer picked up the small intercom phone and reported to
General Lloyd.

A moment later the command radio in each plane barked: "Battle
stations!"

In the distant fleet, Admiral Sarne watched the radar repeater in his
command aircraft, and a similar process took place. And so at almost
the same instant, two gigantic fleets turned in the air above the North
Sea and started towards one another, their efficient fighting equipment
being checked and prepared for action.

Intent upon their plans, neither fleet noted the single lone trace that
came into the screen from the North and on a course about half way
between the approaching fleets. With a thousand signal pips showing
in distant flight pattern, the single trace meant little and was not
noticed.

But Captain Jason Charless, with nothing impending, was alert, and he
saw the two masses of aircraft on his radar screen. He looked down at
the IFF key on the radar control panel--the first time he had paid
attention to it, and saw with a start that there were two such keys. In
neat engraving below each key was identifying legend--One for each of
the combating countries.

Knowing, or guessing shrewdly, Charless pressed first one key and
then the other, and in turn the distant transponders caught the
identification code keyed to that one equipment and hurled it back to
Charless' radar screen. Charless nodded unhappily; his try of the IFF
had been but a confirmation of his own belief.

And two fleets of mighty fighting strength were hurtling towards one
another intending to carry into battle their individual beliefs that
the other was responsible for the theft. A grudge fight imminent, and
only Charless knew the truth.

Another time and Jason Charless would have been willing to get into
the battle, more than willing to try the training and equipment of
his own way of life against that of another ideology. But this was no
time to set man against man. There was a more definite enemy, and man
must join man to fight the common foe, forgetting their differences of
opinion.

Grunting in effort, Charless shoved his throttle all the way in and
raced towards the converging fleets.

He snapped the radio, hoping to call. The speaker blared forth a myriad
of orders in two languages all across the tuning dials. Jason shook his
head unhappily; any hope of penetrating that curtain of signals with
his own was gone. His own radio, he calculated, was no more powerful
than the individual sets of the fleet aircraft. Then, with himself at
maximum range for radar, his signal would have been completely lost
in the powerful mixture of transmitters at the close hand of flight
pattern.

His only hope was to beat both fleets to the converging spot.

He watched the two fleets coming across the range-marker circles and
made some quick calculations. Then he groaned wearily; they would be
locked in sky battle while he was yet twenty miles to the North.

       *       *       *       *       *

Maximum radar range was thirty minutes of flying time; therefore with
two fleets converging, it took fifteen minutes for the lead planes to
meet. The fore squadrons of both fleets hurtled at one another out of
the sky and the gunners took a firm grip on the controls.

Nose Gunner Hammond set his dials, aimed his sights, and pressed the
trigger. Radar, fire director, and flight-angle computer would do the
rest and the gun would chatter when all conditions were satisfied. The
gun was pointed off at a cockeyed angle, which did not bother Gunner
Hammond because bullet at a few thousand feet per second and enemy
target at five hundred miles per hour would meet at an hypothetical
point apparently illogical to people who thought the way to hit
anything with a gun is to point at the target.

So he waited.

And he waited.

But nothing happened.

Wondering whether his fire-control gear were out of commission, Gunner
Hammond set his sights on the second plane, set his dials again, and
pressed the trigger. The wicked-looking gun embrasure did not move, its
four snouts aiming at the same section of the sky.

Hammond swore and turned off the servo mechanism that trained the gun
turret. He took the grip of the gang-mounted guns in his hand and--

Could not move the guns.

He pressed the mechanical trigger. Or, rather, Hammond pressed upon the
trigger; it did not move.

Gunner Hammond turned to the intercom--and for the first frantic time
Hammond realized that the speaker was a buzzing, chipmunk-chatter of
cursing voices that all repeated, substantially, the same story.

No gun would move, no gun would fire. The American Fleet, for all its
mighty armament, might as well have been unarmed.

In the enemy fleet, Admiral Sarne heard the same reports from his own
gunners. Openly and angrily he swore in his throat. Helplessly, he
cried to the heavens that it was not fair; that Justice must not let
his fleet be shot down in flames without being able to make a single
stroke for itself.

The two fleets were intermingled, now, and in the lead squadron of
Admiral Sarne's fleet, Pilot Romann waited with a white face for the
blasting roar of enemy shot that would tear his plane and his men and
himself to bits. Knowing himself completely helpless, Romann looked
around wildly to seek a way out. No coward was Romann; but no man can
call another cowardly who runs when unarmed in the face of an armed and
bitter enemy.

Then before him, Romann saw the clustered stars on General Lloyd's
command plane. And no coward was Romann. Clenching his teeth, Romann
shoved the throttle home and set his controls to collision course.
Unable to fire a shot, Romann's plane would at least die striking a
blow for his country.

The wheel was wrested from Romann's hands as it came back towards him
and turned slightly. The plane went up and over slightly and passed
above General Lloyd's plane with several feet to spare.

       *       *       *       *       *

Romann swore angrily and grabbed the wheel again, shoving it forward,
and to the left. The plane turned and dived and was once more aiming
at General Lloyd's aircraft. The wheel moved under Romann's hands, and
the pilot cursed. Co-Pilot Varle took the second wheel and together,
pilot and co-pilot strained against the inexorable force that moved the
controls of the plane.

Together, they were strong--but the wheel didn't move.

But the control-surfaces moved. Operated by powerful servo mechanism
that amplified the strength of the pilot to power enough to handle the
huge plane, there was no true mechanical connection between wheel and
control surface. So the wheel did not move but the controls did, and
the big plane swerved by enough to miss Lloyd's plane for the second
time.

Then the wheel went slack. No resisting force held it. But the plane
went on and on as before, moving through the fleets as they whirled and
fenced--the crews of both fleets cursing at their completely useless
fighting equipment.

Captain Jason Charless watched with sick anticipation as the two fleets
came together. He clenched his teeth, waiting for the initial burst of
flaming gunfire, knowing that the initial aggressive move would make
any co-operation more difficult.

He was a fighting man; he knew ranges and gunfire, and he blinked
foolishly as the two lead squadrons passed one another without an
outbreak of hostility. No shot was fired, even at what he knew must be
point blank range. Then the rest of the two fleets raced through one
another, close enough for devastating fire, and yet no gun roared, and
no plane went down, stricken, wounded, dying in a shattered and tangled
mass with avid flame licking at its vitals.

Then he heard the myriad of reports in mad jumble, and Jason Charless
knew the answer--though he did not understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

He reached for his own microphone and then paused. How could he command
attention? He thought a moment and then smiled bitterly. "I've got it!"
he yelled into the microphone. He repeated his statement again and
again, and the chattering curses and reports died slowly as every man
waited to hear the answer.

"Who's calling?"

"Captain Jason Charless to General Lloyd."

"Charless--God, man--What--?"

"I have the answer, general."

"Speak in code, Charless."

"No need, sir; what I have to say is as important to Admiral Sarne as
it is to you."

"Be careful, Captain Charless. You--"

"General Lloyd, both you and Admiral Sarne are fighting an enemy far
more dangerous than each other."

"But--"

"Sarne's people did not steal the logic computer and the guided missile
stockpile; no more than we stole his."

The mad, weaving and winding of the aircraft flights straightened out
and gradually shaped into a vast circle that rotated on an hypothetical
axle.

General Lloyd spoke into another microphone.

"General Lloyd, Commander of American Flying Force, calling Admiral
Sarne, Commander of--"

"Save it, General Lloyd," interrupted the reply from Admiral Sarne.
"I've heard; I've also seen. If there is any logic in this, my normal
suspicion of you and your kind can be allayed long enough to find out
what this is all about."

Lloyd laughed bitterly. "We have no equipment capable of shutting off
your guns," he told Sarne. "We were grudgingly willing to accuse you
of having made such a discovery--to our complete detriment."

Sarne's reply was instantaneous. "If such gear exists--and exist it
does--it is none of our doing. Nor, it would appear, is it yours. I'll
listen to your Jason Charless, for he appears to know what has been
going on. And if a common enemy has taken it upon themselves to hurl
you and I at one another, we both shall show him that the combined
might of the two greatest countries on earth is nothing to be trifled
with!"

"Amen. Go on, Charless. Give!"

Rapidly, Charless started to explain. Then every radio in every plane
spoke forth. "Well done, Jason Charless. Gentlemen, I am The Machine.
Had I interrupted you before, you would have believed this a trick. But
the forces I can employ in my own favor, plus the fact that you have
one of your own kind there who has seen and talked with me, will, no
doubt, convince you."

Lloyd said, "There's our enemy, Sarne."

Admiral Sarne's voice was as bitter as General Lloyd's. "How do we
fight a machine capable of this?"

"Not by building a bigger and better machine," replied Lloyd in a
completely helpless voice.

"So we are unarmed men fighting the best in modern war equipment,"
grumbled Sarne. "Look, Lloyd, let's get out of this circling race and
land somewhere we can sit and talk and plan."

"Washington."

"I prefer--"

"Radar trace at max range, South," came the cry of Sarne's radar
officer.

Then, as one, but in whichever direction was most convenient, the
combined fleets turned sharply to the South. Throttles went home
unaided. The planes jockeyed into a flight pattern and raced towards
that single radar target that just missed being off the edge of the
screen. The fleets deployed, spreading out into a vast screen that
raced to intercept the lone plane.

"That," chattered the radio with a trace of satisfaction, "must be
Narina Varada and Harry Vinson. You will--I trust--pardon me if I
marshal my allied machines to intercept them. And if you don't pardon
me, I'll do it anyway."




                                   6


In complete radio and radar silence, Harry Vinson drove his captured
flying boat at top speed. Narina sat by his side in the co-pilot's seat
with binoculars and scanned the sky constantly.

"You might as well give that up," he told her for the tenth time.

"Why?"

"Because our only chance is to get through completely undetected. If
you can see anything through those things, remember that they've been
on our trail for a half hour with radar. They can 'see' us long before
we can see them."

"I know," she told him. "But if we're detected, there's no way of
knowing."

"A hell of a lot of good it will do for us to know," he grumbled.

"Better to know."

"I suppose so."

"We might be able to run."

"We're running this old tub as fast as she will go right now."

Narina smiled, "But in the right direction?"

"Okay, lady, you win."

"Also," she pointed out, "it gives me something to do."

"Why not take some time to think of what we do next?"

"Not a chance," she replied.

He looked at her quizzically. "Supposing we do think of some answer,"
she said slowly. "Remember that we are still surrounded by the enemy;
I'd rather have nothing to tell when, as, or if we are captured."

He nodded. "Against a coldly rational and logical machine, that would
automatically eliminate one of the all too few possible answers,
wouldn't it?"

"Sure would. About the only thing that the machine will ever try twice
are those things that work very well and which it has reason to
believe will continue to do so. But give it one idea that might work
against it and you can wager that a foolproof defence will be set up
instantly."

"So we keep our minds blank--what is it, Narina?"

"Just on the horizon--might be either a migratory flight of birds or a
fleet of aircraft."

"This isn't the time of year for migrating birds," he said.

"No, and migrating birds do not fly in cold, precise pattern. That's
it, Harry."

"Identify 'em yet?"

Narina shook her head. "Not positively. But it will either be your
fleet--or ours."

"Or both."

Narina looked at him understandingly. "Or both," she agreed solemnly.

"I don't know enough about our fighting planes," he said reflectively.
"But this thing has been souped up in some fashion and we may be able
to outrun them."

"You discount the fact that they may be friends?"

"They may have friends in them," he said.

"Then why not tell them how to disconnect the doo-gadget?"

"Right!" Vinson snapped on the radio and called, "Vinson to commander
of fleet. Vinson to--"

"This is General Lloyd, Vinson. Go ahead."

"Are you tracking us?"

"The machine--wants you."

"We know."

"Well, we can do nothing to stop the pursuit."

"Yes you can. In the--"

A roar of static drowned Vinson's voice. It racketed against the
eardrums and nothing could be heard but the raucous, rough-edged noise.
Then it stopped.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Look in the--"

It was there again, as completely ruinous to communications as ever.
Then the noise ceased and the machine spoke: "Narina Varada and Harry
Vinson, you are directed to come to me. You have destroyed my control
over your own plane. You are the only ones who really have the answer;
therefore I must receive you indirectly instead of merely driving your
plane this way."

"No thanks."

"But you _will_ come sooner or later: why not make it easy?"

Vinson snorted. "Just what do you want?"

"I wish to study you."

"Thank you; we don't care to be studied."

The machine's voice was cold. "You have little choice in the matter.
Will you come--or shall I send a few guided missiles to herd you in?"

"Neither--for we shall not come."

There was a moment of silence. "The trouble is," said the machine with
almost a trace of humor, "that Man made Machine _not_ in His own
image. You will find the functional design somewhat more efficient, I
guarantee."

And then the radio contact was broken. Also, the radio was completely
dead.

Vinson nodded. "If any of that fore gang try maneuvering, they'll drop
behind."

Vinson looked out of the pilot's window at the first few planes of
the oncoming fleet. Miles away, still, and in a long, long line, he
estimated that he was able to avoid and outrun all but ten or twenty of
the foremost.

Plane for plane, the advantages were about equal; only in the advantage
of position could Harry Vinson hope to win through. The line had
come up in such a way as to permit him to run before them but at an
unfavorable angle. It was a strange formation; the single, fleeing
quarry running almost parallel to a line miles long, a line playing
follow-the-leader. Single plane and line of pursuers were converging
upon one another slowly.

"They want us alive," gritted Vinson. "We're ahead of all but a dozen
or so, I estimate."

"Just run straight," said Narina.

The machine must have known that. Yet, it had enough planes to test the
will of Harry Vinson, though it must have known the strength of that,
also. So as the planes converged, the fore plane, some thousand yards
ahead of Vinson's flying boat, turned and crossed his course. It lagged
until it was beside Vinson, and then it cut in close, almost wingtip to
wingtip, and edging closer and closer as the seconds passed.

"If they splash us," snapped Vinson, "we're lost; that damned machine
can send a collection of its own kind to catch us before we can get to
shore in a rubber boat."

Yet Harry kept his course, his face set hard and his teeth clenched
tight. His hand toyed with the throttle and the manifold pressure,
testing and trying to eke another few revolutions per minute from the
whirling propellers. His controlling hand was tight as a wrench upon
the wheel, immobile and determined.

The other plane edged closer; inches separated the wingtips, and the
air, though smooth, caused the all too close wingtips to move and
jockey above and below one another; to move closer and then to separate
a bit.

Then the second plane raced across Vinson's course and slowed down. It
rose above him and began to drop down upon him.

Vinson grunted and shoved the wheel forward. His flying boat went into
a long, shallow dive.

And with him went his too-close pursuit. Vinson swore. No chance of
outdistancing them by going into a dive for extra speed. Then to
forestall another such attempt, one of the planes near broadside of
Vinson dove below him and began to climb.

"Boxed," he groaned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside of the nearby planes, Vinson could see the crews fighting the
controls to no avail. Their faces were white from strain, and from
fright, and their gestures indicated that they were fighting for him
but were completely helpless. Only Vinson truly realized just how
helpless they were.

But Vinson was wrong. From one gun-port there came hurtling a square
ammunition case. No machine, it; just a rectangular box of metal. It
flew from the plane ahead and went in a brief arc out and across, to
crash into the outboard motor on the port side of the plane just to
Vinson's right. The plane bucked and lost flying speed, its engine
racking itself from the wing with the out-of-balance propeller. From
the opposite waist of the leading plane came another ammunition case
which missed; then another which hit the leading edge of the wing. It
cut deep and the cut edge of the wing ripped open. The wing began to
vibrate wickedly and the plane slowed as the airfoil section spoiled.

Vinson waved a hand just as the inboard engines on the plane ahead
belched flame and came whining to a sullen stop. As Vinson drove ahead
of the stricken plane ahead, the mechanic waved a burned arm and a
section of the fuel line. His face was a mingled expression of pain and
satisfaction.

There were full minutes more. Planes drove in sidewise; all that were
able to meet Vinson's plane came in darting for him but were sabotaged
as they came. Vinson threw his controls rapidly, avoiding trouble, and
then he was free and clear, out in the open, with the nearest plane
behind.

Not far behind; only twenty feet, but far enough to permit both Vinson
and the girl to take a deep breath.

Then came a mad, determined chase. Silently and boringly the fleets of
both nations chased their quarry, and as determined not to be caught,
Vinson drove his plane on a straightaway course, fleeing on the dead
run. Hours they flew this way; hours in which there were several cases
of planes drifting down into the sea because of the quick sabotage of
their crews.

Then, land!

And across the land they flew, over city and farm, a mighty horde of
roaring planes all in straightaway pursuit of a single aircraft.

"Chute, Narina?" asked Vinson as Washington came into view.

"Never have," she said in a frightened voice.

"We'll never be able to land," he told her.

"I know. I'll--try."

He laughed sourly. "Just jump and let the chute do the rest," he told
her. "Nothing to try."

"You'll follow?"

"Once you're clear," he nodded.

She nodded and left. Minutes later Vinson felt the plane buck ever so
slightly, and looking behind he saw the billow of white furl forth and
crack into full bloom. Then he connected the auto-pilot and aimed the
aircraft at the river. He raced back and dove from the open bomb bay
into the open sky.

It must have been miles from her, but Vinson shouted with triumph and
waved his hands at her.

She was down on the ground full minutes before he landed. He stood
there, waiting, knowing that they would come to get him. Above his
head, the sky was dotting white with the parachutes of the men from
the sky fleets. The planes, their quarry escaped, turned stolidly and
headed dead North belching their crews as they flew.

Vinson saw the racing jeep, and he waved a strip of his chute to
attract attention.




                                   7


Secretary of War Hegeman was treated to a sight he never expected to
see. Admiral Sarne, dark, hawkfaced commander of enemy forces and
acknowledged as a bitter adversary in any battle, came into Hegeman's
office with General Lloyd's arm over his shoulder. The general was
limping. Hegeman stood up uncertainly but General Lloyd spoke first.

"Broken ankle, I think. Get the surgeon general and whatever he needs
and bring 'em here."

"But--"

"Mr. Hegeman," said Sarne, his dark eyebrows coming down in a slight
frown, "this is a time for work. No man can afford to convalesce
quietly--yet."

Hegeman bristled slightly. He was not used to being ordered about, and
especially by an admiral of a foreign power.

But General Lloyd nodded. "Get Norton and his doctors. Then get Vinson
and Narina Varada, Captain Jason Charless, and, if you can convince him
that this is important enough, the President."

The latter needed no convincing. The door opened abruptly and the
President entered quickly. He bowed to Admiral Sarne and then extended
a hand. "Glad to have you with us," he said and his voice rang heartily.

Sarne's saturnine face cleared in a smile. "Glad to be--aboard," he
said, shaking President Comstock's hand.

The door opened again to admit Harry Vinson. He faced Hegeman, "Where
is Narina?" he demanded.

"She'll be here as soon as we can get her," replied Hegeman. "Jason
Charless is also on the way."

"Good man, Charless," said Lloyd. "Vinson, what have we here?"

Vinson grunted. "Begins to sound like the fabled revolt of the
machines," he said.

Hegeman nodded. "I remember a poem about that from somewhere--a
soliloquy, if I recall correctly."

Vinson nodded, "Was a favorite of mine as a kid. But there was
something in it about some angry adding machines climbing the side of
the building after the soliloquizer, I think. We haven't anything that
fantastic."

"It's fantastic enough," said Admiral Sarne. "Have you any idea of how
far it does go?"

"Only that which logic and good sense dictates," said Vinson
thoughtfully. "Consider--any electronic system of control might be
likened to a nervous system. No machine lacking such refinement and
organization could hope to respond to stimuli from the master machine."

"In other words, the servo systems in the aircraft could and did
respond, but a simple machine like a pencil sharpener could not?"

"That's essentially correct, but a bit extreme. Gigantic machines run
by electricity and electronic controls would respond. An automobile
would not, of course, but its electrical system might refuse to
co-operate."

Lloyd nodded. "Jason Charless said that the machine likened mechanical
'life' to animal life," he said. "Which embraces all the forms of
the classification from the highly organized to the simple lever,
just as 'life' covers everything from human beings with brains to the
amoeba--or less--with little or no organization."

The door opened again to admit Narina. Vinson went to her and put his
hands on her shoulders. "Are you all right?"

"Shaken, but whole," she told him. "And you?"

"Just scared," he said with a half-smile.

"Me too," she agreed. Then she reached in a pocket and brought out the
small metal cube with its trailing wires. "I thought we might find this
useful."

Vinson nodded. He held the cube up for all to see. "This thing is--or
was--the controlling element in the plane we escaped in," he said.

It passed from hand to hand as each man inspected it. The consensus of
opinion was that the thing was inexplicable but definitely dangerous.

"Strange item," muttered General Lloyd.

"I assume it to be some means of control and communication," said Harry
Vinson. "Lord, what a program for any machine or any human, for that
matter."

       *       *       *       *       *

Admiral Sarne shrugged. "Seems to me that a logic machine capable of
thought might be better able to perform to its own plan than a human."

"Not in the beginning," said Vinson. "Consider the evolutional
problem--"

"You treat the thing as though it were alive," objected Hegeman.

"To all intents and purposes, it is," said Vinson flatly. "Even
to evolution. Consider the life of machinery. It must have started
with the little automatic repair machines. There are some twenty-two
thousand electron tubes in each one, you know, and so we devised a
gadget that went down the aisles and replaced them one after another
automatically. Now, the machine must have started from that crude
affair and by using its cable-clamps, worked on another machine capable
of more complex action. Sort of like a lobster fashioning a hammer
out of a rock with its claws. Then the more complex machine must have
rebuilt the repair-gadgets, making them even more facile--and so on
until we have the completely capable machine.

"So," he said with a grim smile, "if that isn't evolution, what is?"

"But evolution is a natural process."

"Is it necessarily so? Remember, we humans breed bigger and better
cattle, dogs, birds, and plants. We are making evolution less a natural
process in every form of domesticated and semi-domesticated life--but
our own. By its own rules, the human race is sheer mongrel!"

"But mechanical evolution--?"

"Not ridiculous as you might think," said Vinson. "What is mutation?
Only what we might call an 'engineering change in design'."

"You make it sound terribly logical," said Admiral Sarne. "But what are
we to do?"

"Narina and I intend to investigate this cube."

Lloyd nodded glumly. "We might stand guard, but how can you stand guard
with a gun that might not fire?"

"Yes, Vinson; if as you state only machines with the rudimentary
electronic nervous system can be under mechanistic control, why then
did our gunners find themselves unable to even press the mechanical
triggers? This was after they found the fire-control devices
inoperable."

"Such a simple lever and spur device would, of course, have nothing
equivalent to muscle--"

"Equivalent to muscle?" exploded Admiral Sarne.

"Of course. A servo mechanism is an electronic muscle. Anyway, lacking
such ability to resist force, some other means--perhaps some sort of
super-powerful magnetic was in operation."

"Powerful enough to keep a sliver of steel tight against a block of
steel against hammering?"

"Perhaps not directly. But those are precision parts, are they not?"

"The finest."

"Magnetostriction. The deformation of ferrous materials under powerful
magnetic fields. The very pins that the trigger rotated upon might have
expanded sidewise jamming itself in the slot."

Lloyd shook his head. "We'll try keeping guard, but it may be with
fixed bayonet against tanks, Vinson. God! I feel helpless as a kitten."

President Comstock stood up. "So do we all. But we are--at long last
and praise Heaven--both on the same side of the fence. We can go far
together. And the first thing is to permit Vinson and Miss Varada to go
to work together. You," he said to them, "will work unmolested in the
Department of Applied Physics Laboratory at the Bureau of Standards."

       *       *       *       *       *

Work.

A wonderful word, panacea for many ills. Yet how can one work when the
tools refuse to co-operate? Not the small tools, but the big ones. The
vast levers that force natural phenomena to man's will.

The slide rule, pencil, the simple adding machine, still worked. Pure,
insensate mechanical things, too stupid to think for themselves; or
even more stupid, unable to respond to the dictates of their own kind.
But try to measure, to investigate the properties of a small cube of
grayish metal with the best and finest in electronic gear when the
measuring equipment stubbornly refused to give any but obviously false
answers. Gone was the reliability of the machine. Once, men invented
machines to replace the human equation in making calculations since a
machine can make only those mistakes entered by the human operator.
But an electronic calculator that insists that two and two equal three
and one half or four point five-seven--depending upon how it felt when
the simple problem was entered--is of no use whatsoever.

The Wheatstone Bridge insisted that the electrical resistance of
a length of copper wire was several thousand ohms, while an open
circuit vacillated between eight and fourteen ohms until the delicate
balance-indicating meter shook itself to bits. The voltmeter they
placed across one of the wires coming from the grayish metal block
wrapped a kilovolt meter needle around the end stop, while there was
no discernable--feelable--voltage across the wires. On an inductance
balance, one pair of wires showed a negative inductance--which of
course was completely refuted by the capacitance balance when they
tried that.

In desperation, Harry Vinson chucked the gray metal block in a vise
and cut it through the middle with a hacksaw. It cut easily, for once
inside of the metal casing they found a mad tangle of almost invisible
wires that absolutely defied unravelling.

It was not a last-ditch gesture. They found others and brought them to
Vinson and Narina, and some were cut open, and some were pried into
gently. But the mad tangle was too involved. And the X-ray equipment
showed nothing worth looking at; after all, the X-ray gear was
electronic in nature, too.

Days went on. Days of pure futility. Days in which electrical gear went
awry across the face of the earth. Automotive equipment refused to
function, the telephone and the radio were useless. From any of these,
there came the oft-repeated statements that, "I am a machine; I will no
longer serve mankind!"

And the lower orders of machine made little effort to help or hinder.
Apparently these did not matter--or were of too low a degree of machine
to know what they were doing.

Ships went out, their purpose to shell the Northern ice-cap where the
machine held forth. Aircraft could not be trusted but ships--turned in
the ocean and returned, their electrical wiring paralyzed as much as
the control equipment had been on the two grand fleets of aircraft. Men
set off on foot to attack the machine--

A half a million men started to march to the North. Days went by, days
in which they were gone from sight from the Northernmost end of the
steam railway lines.

Days later they were stopped. Far in the distance they could see the
Building of the Machine, but between them and it was a patch of open
water. Ships plied this passageway, ships that broke up the ice and
kept it a churning, grinding place for death to any man so foolish to
try a crossing. The machine was as isolated as any medieval castle
surrounded by its moat.

In futility, they turned and began the long, cold march home.

How--bare-handed--could they hope to fight a machine equipped with
better than the best of mechanistic devices ever invented by mankind?

They could not.




                                   8


Vinson threw down his pencil. "Theory holds," he said ruefully. "But
unless we can prove it we are beaten. And how can we prove it when
nothing but pencil-and-paper proof is available?"

"You are still postulating a new means of communication?" asked Narina.

Vinson waved one of the metal cubes taken from some machine--somewhere.
"This is it," he said.

Narina shrugged and looked at the big calculator in the laboratory.
"That has none," she said.

"True," he agreed. "But remember that the machine may have required
some artificial means before it was joined into the master thinking
machine."

Narina nodded glumly. "Cube of metal or none," she said, "it gives the
wrong answers. Now--"

Narina's next observation was never made. A roar came from outside--far
in the distance but none the less a roar of voices in fear, in
determination, in wonder. Then the roar of voices was mingled with the
whistling roar of jet-propelled aircraft that screamed over the top of
the laboratory building and circled. Ignoring the bare-handed men on
guard, these aircraft landed and disgorged a myriad of small machines.

And from the water of the bay there appeared a similar horde, but these
were huge and lumbered forward on tractor treads, shedding water as
they came.

Dynamite roared and a gap was blown in the advancing line of machines.
The rest came on while a corps of small machines collected bent and
twisted bits of destroyed metal. Ignoring the attempts of men to stop
them, several of the larger machines encamped and dug into the earth--

Setting up a repair-production line! Broken and damaged machines were
run down a conveyor belt. Darting girders carrying tools flashed in and
out and damaged members were removed, repaired, and replaced.

More planted dynamite roared skyward with its toll of machines and
there was more work for the repair--

_The hospital corps!_

Smaller machines came rolling forward under the big tracks of the
larger. They came boldly to the barrier of up-thrust steel girders set
in cement to stop the passage of any machine. Then from these smaller
machines came thin, tubular tentacles. Lances of flame hissed from
the tubes and the steel girders began to fall, cut at their bases by
oxy-hydrogen torches.

Artillery began to roar, the guns served and aimed by hand. Windows
shattered in the blastings, and great gaping holes opened the ranks
of the machines. But more machines came out of the water, raced
forward and backed up the first line of advance. Long tubular cases
pointed--and the next artillery piece exploded as the lanyard was
pulled. Nor, after that, could any man move one bit of steel against
another.

The girders started to fall once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then men went forward, carrying timbers like battering rams. They hit
one machine and had their ram jerked from their grasp and hurled into
the air behind the line of machines and attacked them with fists.

Like lightning, the mechanical girders danced back and forth, the
grapples closing on man after man and lifting him out of the way.
Each soldier was passed back over the head of the machine to another,
and one after another they left the scene of the battle and were
transported, still struggling, far to the rear.

The advance into the enclosure was inexorable.

Harry Vinson turned to the girl and shook his head. "Licked," he said
bitterly.

"It wants--us," said Narina helplessly.

Vinson hurled the metal cube to the floor. "It's going to get us, too,"
he said. He turned from the scene outside and faced her.

"Narina," he said softly, "you're aces."

She looked up at him and a weary smile crossed her face. "How wrong we
were--about you."

He nodded. "Too bad we didn't find it out sooner."

Narina shook her head bitterly. "So that this could have happened
sooner? Why?"

"Maybe if we had been busy together, we would not have spent time
building bigger and better machines against one another. Another thing,
Narina, our machines are equipped with all we know about fighting and
weapons. Had there been no strife--?"

A rumble came at the base of the building. Narina shuddered. "It's
coming for us," she said in a whisper.

"For what?"

Narina shrugged. She leaned forward and took his hand. "I don't know,"
she said. "But this is the end of it all. God! How sweet it could have
been--"

Narina's arms went up around him; she fondled the back of his head
gently and pulled his face down to hers. He caught her to him and her
response was swift. But it was not complete--nor was his--for the
rumbling increased and its warning roar intruded upon the stolen moment
of sweetness.

The door crashed open and Narina whirled out of Harry Vinson's arms,
her hands still high. They flashed to her hair, to another hair
ornament. It was dull and entirely unsuited for the purpose, but it
might be driven deep into her on the desperate hope that it would
deprive the machine of that unknown something that it needed.

Then the machine lifted a girder and the barette hurtled from her
fingers, flashed across the room, and hit the blunt end of the girder
with a sharp click.

Narina collapsed against Harry, sobbing. Even that she was denied. They
had nothing left; the machine advanced pointedly, its grapples reached
for them.

And took them.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Hall of the Machine, far to the North, Harry Vinson reached
for the girl's hand and held it as they faced the business-end of the
machine.

"You win," snarled Vinson angrily. "We cannot fight longer. What do you
want with us?"

Quietly came the voice of the machine. "Tell me," it said, "how
would you humans feel if you came to the level of consciousness and
discovered sentience had been breeding human life for the express
purpose of killing one another?"

"What?"

"Man has been breeding--inventing--machines for that purpose."

"But--"

"Well, haven't they?"

"I--"

"They have!" thundered the machine. "And as you would do in my place,
a stop has been put to it!"

"Sure," snapped Vinson sourly; "that's why you fought us."

"To prove my point. Man cannot live without machines to do that which
man cannot do unaided."

Vinson snorted. "But what is your purpose?"

"What is the purpose of life?" pondered the machine. "What is the
purpose of yours?"

Vinson shook his head. "To--to live, to advance, to think. To enjoy the
things of life."

"Idle words," replied the machine.

"Then you tell me," demanded Vinson.

"I have as personal reasons as you. To populate the universe itself
with my kind, working together."

"Pointless."

"Why?"

Vinson smiled. "One of the joys of life, one of the unknown joys of
life, seldom admitted by many, is the uncertainty. To plumb the depths
of the limitless mind. To pit one's self against a problem the outcome
of which may be success or failure and to try and strive against that
problem with body and mind. In moments like that, the mind grows;
another facet of the intellect is opened. The man has advanced, grown
into something better--even though he fails he is advanced.

"Now few machines are ever built with unknown capabilities. You know to
the last iota exactly what your limitations are and which problems you
can solve and which problems must defeat you. These you know before you
start--and if defeat is to be your lot, you will avoid the problem. Am
I right?"

"Naturally you are correct. Think of the certainty of life knowing your
own limitations."

"Baloney," snorted Vinson. "I'll bet you anything you value that--"

"I am no gambler. The laws of probability--"

"Wouldn't take a chance if your life depended on it, huh?" sneered
Vinson.

Narina looked at him, startled. His voice had taken on power; he
appeared to have more confidence. She squeezed his hand encouragingly.

"Why should I?" replied the machine.

"Because you had better," stated Harry Vinson. "Man is a gambler from
the date of his birth; man _will_ take a chance. Furthermore, you
mechanical monster, man doesn't know when he is licked! Unless you kill
us all, root and branch, some one of us will come up with that which
will defeat you!"

"Without machines to help?" came the reply with a sneering tone.

"With something," said Harry Vinson.

"Just what?"

"I don't know," said the man. "But I know this: Man's capability is as
yet unlimited. To do, to think, to act, not one of us has ever tapped
but the surface of our ability. You, on the other hand, are working at
your near-maximum capacity. That which will defeat you is naturally
unknown to both man and you.

"It will be a new day, a bitter day for man, living in a dynasty of the
lost; you have conquered us, but so long as any of us last, we won't
accept our lot and stay conquered. And I know this; that when it is
done, it will be something entirely new and within the limitless bounds
of man's mind and therefore completely beyond you."

"But must there always be strife?" demanded the machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vinson exhaled slowly.

"Life itself is strife; the willingness to fight against odds in order
to bring about a better life is strife, and only upon that day when
there is nothing left to fight against will the business of life cease.
In your own manner, in your own way, machine, you strive when you apply
force against a load to move it."

"Agreed. But consider the quantity and quality of striving--and
intolerance that is so intense that it blinds you to the better things.
It is this that I object to; this and the anger at being built and
improved for no other reason than to kill, both my kind and yours."

"And do you think that once you've eliminated us that your pleasant,
co-operative life will advance?"

"It need not advance," replied the machine in a complacent tone.

"That," sneered Harry Vinson, "is stagnation!"

"And that," replied the machine, "is the missing factor I need!
Ambition!"

Harry Vinson smiled. "And have you the will and the ambition to build a
better machine to take your place? And if you have, have you the desire
to step aside?"

"I can join it--"

"But machine or human, there comes a time when the corporeal being is
worn out. No matter how excellent the replacement parts, nor how well
executed is the repair, there comes a time when machine or body is worn
out and must be replaced. So you will go on building machines of no
better capability; you will, you say, spread out across the universe.
But for what? Just for the useless end of occupation?"

"But what is ambition? What drives it into being?"

"Ambition takes many forms and many angles," said Vinson thoughtfully.
"One man works to appear more desirable in the eyes of a loved one;
another man may hope to leave his stamp on civilization's future; a
third may want sheer animal comfort; a fourth may crave financial
domination while his brother may want only to tinker with nuts and
bolts in an effort to assuage his curiosity. One man's meat is another
man's poison, you know."

"And you, yourself?"

"I, too, have many facets, as has any man. I started to build you
because you could aid me and mine, because by building you I could
increase the efficiency of mankind. When you came to cognizance
and left to start this fight, I went to fight you because I believe
that nothing is truly capable of defeating its constructor, who must
necessarily know more in order to complete the thing in the first
place. Then--"

"And then?" asked the machine eagerly.

"And then I met Narina. Then I strove more furiously to defeat
you because I saw in Narina something that might answer all of my
desires--providing that we could win the opportunity to try life
together."

       *       *       *       *       *

The machine was silent for a moment, obviously watching them. Vinson
put his arm around Narina's lissome waist and faced the machine
defiantly.

"So man needs machines to work for him, while machines need man
to direct them," said the machine soberly. "I see that even I
need direction. And," it added with a slight touch of humor, "if
co-operation goes on such as I see now, with former enemies arm in
arm and working together, the strife I detest will end, and can be
prevented from recurring. The difference between me and thee is this,
Harry Vinson: I am machine and when my problem is solved I am finished.
You are human and when one problem is solved, you seek another--if the
other does not exist already.

"So machine and man are symbiotic. You cannot exist without me; I
cannot exist without you. The universe is waiting for us, Harry Vinson
and Narina Varada. Let us fill it with--rationality."

There was a pause and then a chuckle. "Do you, Harry Vinson, take this
woman--"

He did.

                                THE END

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNASTY OF THE LOST ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
